# Local Binary Pattern-Grey Level Co-occurence Matrix-Spectral-Clustering
The scripts written in the aim of achieving objectives related to my master's thesis in Data Sciences in the field of Computer Vision.

Metallurgical industries want to be able to effectively control the quality of their products in order to maintain their prestige and increase their customers base. Therefore, the design and implementation of an optimal  technical scheme to detect these metal defects would be a solution to this problem. In this work, two methods used to extract local characteristics from the images of metal products are presented. These are the Local Binary Pattern (LBP), the Grey Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM). After extracting the specific characteristics describing each image, these informations are grouped into a matrix on which the spectral clustering technique will be applied in order to classify images according to their similarities. Each of these algorithms is applied to the tabulated images. The effectiveness of these methods is evaluated in terms of the number of positive detections obtained.The results have shown that the combination of Local Binary Pattern and spectral clustering gives a better detection accuracy compared to the Grey Level Co-occurrence Matrix.

Data available  are images of tabulators. These images have been divided into three basic classes. The first class is that of tabulators assumed to be well manufactured (Good tabulator), the second class is that of tabulators for which the component has been omitted during the manufacturing process (Empty tabulator) and the third class is that of tabulators poorly made during the manufacturing process (Bad tabulator). The distinction between good and bad tabulators has been made by experts on the plan.

After converting each of these images to grey scale, we filtered each of them using the median filter for some specific reasons. 
Using LBP, the extraction of uniform and rotationally invariant features has been made with a radius $ r=2 $ and a neighborhood consisting of 8 pixels. To recall in Sect.3, these parameters will produce for each image 58 uniform patterns and one set containing all other non-uniform patterns, hence, a total of 59 patterns.Because of the rotational invariance, each image will become perfectly described by giving 10 uniform and rotationally stable patterns.We were interested in the number of occurrences of each uniform pattern in each image.Since we face a detection problem, we first took seperately the set consisting of good images and extracted the uniform features of each of them, this process was repeated on the sets containing the empty and bad images.

 Using GLCM, We used a quantize our image with a level of 32 to avoid the large amount of information loss . Then we computed the co-occurrence matrices of each quantized image.The characteristics we have extracted from these matrices were energy, homogeneity, contrast, correlation and entropy. The inter-peak distances taken are $ 1,2 $ and the orientations considered are $ 0^\circ $, $ 45^\circ $  $ 90^\circ $  $ 135^\circ $.However, each of images was described by 40 features.

We applied spectral clustering on all the features extracted by using the LBP. The objective was to know if with the characteristics described by the Local Binary pattern, the spectral clustering method would optimally distinguish the three qualities of tabulators. We therefore want to obtain three distinct classes at the end of the algorithm. We choosed a control parameter $ \sigma=1 $
